(watch ticking)
You're making a quick getaway.
Yeah, I've got to get
to Greensboro.
I've got some sales calls
that just won't wait.
I kind of wanted to say goodbye
to Thomas before I left.
ALT-HELEN:
He was gone already
when I got up, with no word.
He usually leaves a note
when he's gone fishing.
Here.
-Thank you.
-What's got you so anxious?
Uh, I guess my head's
is in work already, you know?
Uh, yeah, I may be,
um, on the road
a little longer than usual,
might be difficult
to make calls.
Are you gonna tell me
what's going on?
What? No. I just...
Uh... My work numbers are down
and I just got to put in
a few more hours, that's all.
That's not what
I'm talking about, John.
-Well, what, then?
-The fight
last night with Thomas,
and then Daniel.
You've never been this dark.
-I'm the same as I always was.
-If there's something
going on, you can tell me.
Whatever it is.
We've always had that.
We have, and that's why
you should believe me now.
But I don't.
(chuckles) Well, then...
(stammers)
We definitely got to talk,
but right now
it's just got to wait
'cause I...
-Sales calls...
-Yeah.
I'm-I'm glad I saw you
before you left.
-Listen...
-I did it.
I thought we were
gonna talk about this.
I didn't really see any reason
to drag it out any longer.
My recruiter's coming by
in a little while to give me
and a group of other guys
a ride to Parris Island.
-What?
-I need to get my bag packed.
Jesus, whoo...
No, it's too soon. John...
It's okay. We can handle this.
I'm gonna put in a call
to the recruiter.
You acted rashly, Thomas.
I shouldn't have
-said those thing. I'm sorry.
-No, no, no, no, no.
I've been thinking about this
for a long time now.
This is my choice.
ALT-HELEN:
Oh, this is all
happening so quickly.
John, if you had just
spoken to him calmly
last night, you could've
-talked some sense into him.
-What are you implying?
Well, that you of all people
would know how to speak
to our son.
Oh, so this is all my fault?
This had nothing to do with you?
What are you talking about?
I-I-I got to get some air...
-and think this through.
-(door opens, closes)
(van doors closing)
Gentlemen.
I'm sorry to say there's been
a misunderstanding here.
Um, my son Thomas, he's, uh,
reconsidered his decision.
Don't worry, Mr. Smith. We'll
take good care of your boy.
-No, you won't.
-Excuse me?
You think I don't know
how this ends?
I understand, Mr. Smith.
It's only natural
to be concerned about your son.
Yes, it is.
I'm sorry, sir. He's 18.
-He signed the papers.
-I won't let you take him.
Dad, it's done. I'm going.
I won't let you.
My boy.
-I love you.
-Bye.
Thomas.
Is there anything that
I could've said yesterday
that would have made you
change your mind?
It doesn't matter now.
Be proud of me.
But I've always been proud
of you, Thomas.
Goodbye.
(film projector
whirring, clicking)
♪ Edelweiss ♪
♪ Small and white ♪
♪ Clean and bright ♪
♪ Blossom of snow ♪
♪ May you bloom ♪
♪ And grow ♪
♪ Bloom and grow ♪
♪ Forever ♪
♪ Edelweiss ♪
♪ Bless my homeland ♪
♪ Forever. ♪
ALT-HELEN (distorted):
It might actually
be good for him.
And this-this thing in Vietnam,
-it's gonna blow over quickly.
-(watch ticking)
He might not even have
to be sent into combat.
(normal voice):
John.
John, say something.
It's-it's like
some terrible joke.
A joke?
What does that mean?
I got to get back.
I-I have to leave.
What?
Our son just went to war,
a-and you're
leaving me here alone?
Listen, I can fix this, Helen.
There's a way, somehow,
and I'm gonna find it.
But I'm running out of time.
What are you talking about? What
could possibly be more important
-than this right now?
-I'm gonna go away. Listen.
You may not hear from me
for a while, but I'm not gone.
Okay? I can't explain.
Just understand
I'm not gonna let this happen.
I d... I don't understand.
I'm sorry, Helen.
(engine starts)
(indistinct chatter over P.A.)
Welcome back, Reichsmarschall.
Get my clothes.
I want to talk to Abendsen.
ABENDSEN:
Rachel Chrisalms
thought elections
were a keen idea.
Why not decide the fate
of America
with a popularity contest?
Rachel's dalliance
with democracy has earned her
a tailor-made straitjacket
and a ticket on a bullet train
-bound for Crazytown.
-BELLOWS: Yep.
-They turned him.
-Population one.
-Poor bastard.
-Quiet. Shh.
One second, please.
Join me, your host,
Hawthorne Abendsen,
aboard that patrol
as it hurtles
towards its final destination:
the High Castle.
JULIANA:
Turn it off.
I'm trying to write it down.
I...
It's the Ministry of Propaganda
writes this shit,
-not Abendsen.
-You don't know him.
You don't know
how his mind works.
He thrives on riddles
and puzzles and paradoxes.
"Straitjacket." "Dalliance."
"Crazytown."
"Bullet."
But...
Abendsen wrote this.
What does it mean?
That I don't know.
(alarm blares, door opens)
Didn't go how you expected, huh?
Well, you're not the first one
to try to steal fire
from the gods, John.
There were complications.
Course there were.
But they can be dealt with.
Hmm.
What happened over there, John?
You found him, your boy,
alive and well.
Helen and the girls.
Uh, no, um...
In that world,
my girls were never born.
Something found,
something lost.
Did you imagine
slipping away to that world
for good?
Of course you did.
But it isn't that easy, is it?
Now you're caught betwixt,
in between.
I have
unfinished business there.
My son may need my help.
But first, I need to understand
the repercussions
if I interfere.
You already have, John.
You're already living
with the repercussions.
Yes, but I can fix it.
You sure about that?
I'm not gonna lose my son again.
(breathing heavily)
(man screaming)
-(gunshots)
-(whimpering)
(woman screams)
-(woman screams)
-(baby crying)
(grunting)
-(grunting)
-(man groans)
(panting)
You owe Mr. Okami.
(wind gusting)
KIDO (on tape):
We found a partial print
on the clip inside the pistol.
It is yours.
IIJIMA:
Next time, I promise
to be more vigilant.
(keys jangling)
(bird cawing in distance)
I remember you, Kido Taisa.
Since we first met
all those years ago
in Singapore.
Admiral Inokuchi,
you are facing court-martial.
Are there any witnesses you wish
to call for your defense?
-What has become of you, Taisa?
-It is my duty
to remind you of your rights.
Your military command
and your freedom are at stake.
This court-martial is a sham.
Under Japanese law,
I have a right to a Navy
court-martial in Tokyo.
You are on trial
for consorting with the enemy.
You know the sentence
this charge carries.
I do.
Did you undertake this meeting
with Equiano Hampton
on your own...
or did you have allies?
I keep my promises.
Do you keep yours?
I am freer man
inside this jail cell
than you are out there.
You are a puppet dancing
on Yamori's strings.
Enough!
Shut your mouth, traitor!
You do not remember
when Japan was starving,
when our families
could not provide for us.
You have conspired
against your own people.
Now you will face justice alone.
KIDO:
Admiral Inokuchi refuses
to call witnesses on his behalf.
As good as admitting
he's guilty.
This court-martial
should be in Tokyo
-with a jury of naval officers.
-We do not have that luxury.
It could be seen in Japan
as illegitimate.
That is why
we have to move quickly.
Your Highness.
Where is Admiral Inokuchi?
The admiral has been arrested.
He stands accused
of colluding with the terrorist
-Equiano Hampton.
-He was there
on my instruction.
YAMORI:
Your compassion for the accused
is noble, Your Highness, but...
Are you suggesting
I am lying to protect him?
For your own protection,
we are confining you
to your quarters.
And if I refuse?
The emperor would not forgive me
if I did not protect you
during these volatile times.
SAITO:
Iijima.
Disconnect her phone lines.
Stiffen your spine, Kido Taisa.
Remember the cause.
JUNIOR:
Peace talks?
L.A. never signed off on this.
Now, who decided
we could trust this admiral?
-ELIJAH: Equiano did.
-Nah. You got set up.
Man, shut the fuck up.
You don't know shit.
Inokuchi's men
was getting shot at, too.
Fuck you know about that, huh?
He didn't know this was coming
any more than we did.
There'll be plenty of time
to hand out blame later.
We got bigger problems now.
Empire Radio says we're beaten.
Soon our own people
are going to believe them.
Sister, if you want
to serve the revolution,
why don't you start
by getting us something to eat.
I am not here
to serve you, brother.
The next stage
has to happen right now.
We have got to send a message
that we are still here,
-or this all falls apart.
-We need to hear from China.
-From Ch...?
-LEON: Is that where we're at?
We're trading one master
for another?
There's more to this
than you understand.
JUNIOR:
You stepping
into Equiano's shoes, Pops?
Because maybe it's time
for L.A. to run things.
Here you go.
Seems they always wind up
fighting each other.
That's what men do when
they're scared-- they fight.
I'm scared, too.
You're not wrong.
What camp were you in?
(sets cup down)
Like knows like, honey.
(sniffs)
(sets cup down)
Moulton, Alabama.
The day I turned 13...
one of the Aufseherin
at the camp
told me to step out of line
and follow her.
I was still a child.
Thought it was a surprise
for my birthday.
Nurse told me I was gonna be...
fixed...
so I could work
but I couldn't breed.
I didn't know what
she was talking about.
I remember I just said,
"Thank you."
'Cause that's what my mama
had always taught me to say.
We escaped the camp.
The wound was infected.
By the time
the truck got to Oakland,
I was close to dying.
They brought me
to an underground hospital.
The movement brought me back,
fed me, clothed me, educated me.
All of us.
They saved all of us.
It was years before I met
the man who started it.
Now he's dead.
How many tactical units
we have up here?
Twenty-two.
What's our operational reach?
San Jose to the south...
Eureka to the north,
east to the Neutral Zone.
-Man, you can go it alone.
-And I'll take
my troops with me.
Ain't no reason for L.A.
to answer to Oakland.
Portland. Eureka. Santa Rosa.
Oakland. San Jose.
You know what they have
in common?
I'm not sure what you're saying.
BELL:
This...
is the Crimson Pipeline.
Carries oil to the Port of
Oakland for transport to Japan.
That oil is the lifeblood
of the Empire's war with China.
With enough explosives,
we can cut that vein.
Stops them in their tracks.
Everyone thinks
the movement died with Equiano.
We have to show them
we're still here.
(sighs)
(chuckles):
Well, look at you.
You're a natural
with that icing.
The best part is licking
the knife when it's over.
(chuckles)
I think so, too.
I'm so glad to be back.
Aren't you?
Sure.
I hated the Neutral Zone.
Well, I suppose you are
a real city girl.
-I'm an Aryan girl.
-(chuckles)
That you are.
What... Amy, you
can't make them all vanilla.
Vanilla's Daddy's favorite.
Yes, but your father's not
the only one who likes cupcakes.
(helicopter blades whirring
in distance)
Mom?
Yeah?
Do you still love Daddy?
What makes you ask that?
You don't seem happy
when he's around.
(sighs):
Well...
we can't be happy all the time.
But you're supposed to be.
If not, something's wrong.
I don't know about that.
I think that people's feelings
are complicated.
What if you went to one
of those reeducation camps?
Why would I do that?
You can't love your family
if you don't love your race.
Everybody knows that.
Where did you hear
about these camps?
Everybody at school
knows about them.
Mr. Phipps,
the chemistry teacher,
he went to one.
Why?
He was a degen...
-Degenerate?
-That's it.
I don't know
what it means exactly,
but I know it's bad.
Where is Mr. Phipps now?
You know, most people
who go to those camps--
they never come back.
I'm gonna make a special cupcake
just for Daddy.
WYATT:
Forget about Helen Smith.
She's never gonna help us.
It's not worth the risk.
Look, I'm going to New York.
You're not gonna change my mind.
I wouldn't let any of my people
-pull something like this.
-Well, you know what?
I'm not one of your people.
And what makes you think
we can turn her?
-I know Helen.
-Yeah, she's the wife
of an SS officer.
The other version of her
is a churchgoing woman
who devotes her days to helping
others. She helped me.
In that world, maybe,
but not in this one.
No, in this one, too.
Look, I've seen her in both.
That quality is in her, and
I know what she's capable of.
She's one of the most protected
women in the Reich.
-You're one of the most wanted.
-Yeah. I'll figure it out.
And even if we put a bullet in
John Smith, what will it change?
There'll just be another general
waiting in line
to take his place.
Well, he's not just a general.
He's the key.
Whoever controls the portal
controls the future.
Do you understand that?
All of this is based on visions
that you've had.
And I believe you,
but for some of my men,
it's a stretch.
Yeah, well, I'm going.
I won't let you.
Look, Liam...
All right.
But I'm going with you.
You have really beautiful
cursive writing, Amy.
I practice it a lot.
I'm not surprised.
You have to practice things
if you want to get good at them.
I agree.
What do you have to learn to
become a Staatspolizei officer?
Would you like to become one?
That or a veterinarian.
Hmm. Maybe some day I'll take
you to visit our headquarters.
-How does that sound?
-I'd like that.
All the girls in school
are wearing German braids,
but my mom won't make them
for me.
Maybe that's 'cause
she doesn't know how.
They had different styles
when she was a girl.
I grew up with them.
-I can make them for you.
-You can?
Sure. Slide back.
Maybe another time, Amy.
(helicopter blades whirring)
(mouse squeaking)
(man shouting indistinctly
in distance)
(distant bells tinkling)
(mouse squeaking,
distant shouting)
YUKIKO:
Robert?
(footsteps approaching)
(indistinct shouting continues
in distance)
I've come full circle.
I'm back to eating mice.
I'm a mouse-eater.
I made a bowl of udon for you
to keep up your strength.
I can get us food.
I can move freely.
Yeah, well, I can't.
(Childan sighs)
If the BCR found out
I was alive, they'd kill me.
The Kempeitai think
I collaborated,
so they're hunting me.
I can't go to my apartment,
can't show my face
in my own shop.
I have to clear my name.
How?
I'll go to Kido,
and I'll explain what happened.
Look, I was a victim, okay?
-He'll see that I'm innocent.
-Childan-san.
-No, I can explain to him.
-Your optimism is so American.
What do you mean?
When I was 14,
a man came to our village
to collect the young girls.
He told us
we'd be nurses in the city
and work with the war effort.
I was excited.
I wanted to go,
but my father knew
what he meant.
They made the girls...
(speaking Japanese)
Prostitutes.
My father took me
to the local authority--
Sergeant Tanaka--
a man he trusted.
Tanaka scared off the man
from the city,
and I felt safe.
And I'm working in the field,
and Tanaka came.
He took me in the field.
My face in the dirt.
I told my father
what Tanaka had done to me.
My father demanded
my honor be restored.
Your father killed him?
No, Robert.
He made me marry him.
My father shook Tanaka's hand
at the wedding,
and I was married with the man
for 12 years.
The day Tanaka died
was the day I was born.
Never be ashamed of eating mice.
We're survivors.
We will outlive these men.
(elevator bell dings)
All their honor, all their
ribbons and medals are there
to disguise
who they really are.
But their crimes
are always revealed.
Guard, halt.
YAMORI:
In the name
of the Heavenly Sovereign,
I convene
this military court-martial.
SAITO:
This court-martial
summons as witness
Chief Inspector Takeshi Kido.
Tell us what happened
in the course
of your surveillance
of the accused.
My officers followed
Admiral Inokuchi
to an abandoned sawmill
in a town outside of Moraga.
There, I saw him meet
with Equiano Hampton.
The terrorists responsible
for the gala auction massacre.
Kido Taisa, I was present
when the crown princess
asked you to find
-Tagomi's murderers.
-SAITO: You are not
to speak to the witness.
What did you find, Taisa?
Are you afraid
to tell the truth?
YAMORI:
I will allow
the admiral's question.
Did you search
for Minister Tagomi's murderers,
Chief Inspector?
I conducted
a complete investigation, yes.
SAITO:
And what individual
did you determine
was Tagomi's killer?
Say it, Taisa.
Colonel Kido?
Captain Iijima!
It was Mingus Jones, sir.
Whose testimony is this?!
The evidence, Captain Iijima.
(gunshots, glass breaking)
SAITO:
Colonel Kido,
there was a conspiracy to murder
Minister Tagomi, was there not?
Yes.
There was.
What the fuck are you doing?
A fine morning to you, too.
I heard
you're heading to New York.
I am.
Well, D.C.'s gonna need
these weapons
if we're ever gonna mount
an assault on the portal.
D.C. can spare 'em.
I shipped in enough
to go around.
You're driving a bread truck
with a cache of guns
into Manhattan?
(sighs)
Yes.
Jesus Christ. What has
she talked you into?
What are you doing, man?
You realize her plan is nuts.
I earned my stripes!
Don't question my judgment!
Fuck.
Admiral Inokuchi,
this court-martial finds you
guilty of high treason
and conspiracy to murder
Trade Minister Nobusuke Tagomi.
Admiral Inokuchi did not kill
Trade Minister Tagomi.
He conspired
with Tagomi's murderers.
We both know
who killed the trade minister,
and it is not the BCR.
Remember the cause you serve,
Taisa.
Admiral Inokuchi,
this military court-martial
sentences you to death.
SAITO:
We are prepared to offer you
the courtesy of a firing squad.
Chief Inspector...
...the duty and honor
of rendering justice
falls to you.
Escort the prisoner
to the execution yard.
Kido.
Have you fallen this low?
No!
I will die with my eyes open.
(engine turns off)
(dog barking in distance)
Riflemen!
Ready!
Load!
(rifles clicking)
Aim!
Stop!
General Yamori.
I arrest you for the murder of
Minister Nobusuke Tagomi.
Captain Iijima!
-(gunshot)
-(groaning)
Riflemen!
About face.
Take the General into custody.
Do it.
(shouts in Japanese)
(Iijima groaning)
You will not survive this, Kido.
(handcuffs clacking)
(gurgling, grunting)
(door opens)
(door closes)
(exhales)
(brakes squeaking)
(engine turns off)
(creaking)
(latch clicks)
Boom.
This file holds the evidence
that Captain Iijima was the man
who shot Trade Minister Tagomi.
Iijima was working under
the orders of General Yamori.
I am shocked.
But I am not surprised.
This occupation...
has turned our people...
against themselves.
I understand your son
served in Manchuria.
Yes, Your Highness.
I hope for a day
we no longer need
to send our sons to war.
I will see that this information
is delivered
to the Emperor himself.
There will be consequences.
Chief Inspector,
I know where
your political sympathies lie.
My loyalties will always lie
with the emperor.
(exhales)
This must not have been easy.
It was my duty.
Nothing more.
(elevator bell dings)
Daddy.
(exhales)
It's good to see you.
I have a surprise for you.
Close your eyes.
Okay.
(exhales sharply)
Open them.
It's wonderful.
Thank you.
I told Mom you'd like it.
Good night.
Is everything all right?
Yeah, of course.
Did something happen
on your trip?
No. Why?
You seem...
different.
Do I?
Uh...
Well...
(exhales)
I guess I've been, um...
I've been missing the girls.
And, uh...
I've been thinking a lot
about you.
Were you gonna tell me
about Martha?
Who?
The Staatspolizei agent.
Ah.
(exhales)
Okay.
(grunts, chuckles)
Listen, I...
What can I say? I...
I asked them to...
provide someone
who wasn't gonna interfere
with your daily life...
I'm under surveillance. That
interferes with my daily life.
It's security, Helen.
I have bodyguards, too.
Oh, come on.
Let's at least be honest
with each other, John.
Oh, you want me to be honest?
I don't like it either, Helen.
But the fact is I-I don't know
that I can trust you
-not to do anything rash again.
-I don't ask you
where you go or who you're with.
Even when you leave for
"Reich business" on a weekend
and tell me
that you can't be reached.
SMITH:
What's that supposed to mean?
I can read you, John.
I know
when something has happened.
Helen...
th...
(exhales)
there's no one else.
It's just you.
We were apart for a year.
I mean, I'm not a fool, John.
That's different.
(exhales)
I don't object.
It's been 20 years.
We're both adults.
All I ask
is you grant me the same measure
of privacy that I grant you.
Listen, Helen...
(exhales)
if you're not happy with Martha,
then we can get her replaced.
-But the fact...
-I don't want
someone else.
I don't want another guard.
I want out of this fucking cell.
How does it end?
John, all of this.
I mean, where does it end?
(insects trilling)
(creaking)
You still racking your head
over that thing?
Yeah.
Getting close.
Oh, yeah, uh,
Richie says he's got a...
squat house for us in Harlem.
The-the pornographer?
Judge not.
Look.
"Rachel Chrisalms"
-becomes "Reichsmarshall."
-Yeah.
"Join me, your host"
becomes "John Smith."
"Patrol" becomes "portal."
And then "bullet train."
He's telling us Smith travels
to the portal by train.
(laughs)
The old bugger's torturing you.
It's one-- yeah, you laugh.
It's one long string of code.
By the time you crack it,
this war will be over.
(sighs)
Fuck. It's freezing in here.
We getting close to the city?
What is that?
Pull over.
(brakes squeak)
(panting)
(engine turns off)
-Oh, my God.
-Oh, shit.
That's right.
You weren't here.
Where's the Statue of Liberty?
They destroyed it.
That is what they built
in its place.